You won't get far here with this kind of protest.

You are probably right.  We do not hope to achieve our final goal of a
total ban on noise through this document.  We were surprised to see
that a number of <em>faculty members</em> were not sympathetic to our
pleas, so we compiled this to avoid writing or saying the same things
over and over again.



You seem to be over-reacting.  The noise does not annoy me.

There are only a few locations which are sources of major noise: the
hillside and lakeside community halls, and the SAC.  If you are
separated from these sites by even 40 meters (and/or a single line of
tree cover), you may be so effectively shielded from the noise source
that this issue may not matter to you at all.  

However, there definitely are a number of faculty apartments
critically affected by the noise.  E.g., at least 12 apartments in
hillside multi-storied building directly overlook the hillside
community hall, and suffer from levels of sound in excess of the
Supreme Court guidelines: Prof.&nbsp;Dhanesh Manik, an expert on noise
and acoustics, has made some measurements to this effect.

The foundations of civilized living dictate that we have a stand on
civic codes of conduct even if we are not personally affected by the
code.  We have noted that a member of the Indian middle class will
tend not to protest anything that does not affect him/her directly.
We condemn this self-centered lack of concern for common civic
welfare, and hope that an IIT faculty member can rise above this
general level of indifference which is ruining the country.

A great way for faculty members to grow empathy with the affected
faculty members is to spend a few days in the latters' apartments
while there is a festival going on nearby.  In fact, we believe that
if the Director and some Deans decided to do this early and often
enough, the noise problem would not grow to today's magnitude.



These festivals are a part of Indian culture.  Don't you like Indian
culture?

We surely do.  In fact, IITs can hire many faculty members who return
from other countries, because they feel more comfortable amidst Indian
culture than in foreign countries, despite the greater salary and
comforts elsewhere.  However, the ripest fruits of Indian culture do
<strong>not</strong> include imposing one's celebrations, with the aid
of high-power amplifiers and speakers, on the eardrums of children,
aged and infirm people, and faculty members striving around the clock
to research and teach better and raise the academic standards of IIT.

Consider, e.g., the bursting of fire-crackers during Diwali.  The
mass-production and consumption of crackers is a relatively recent
fixture; only oil lamps were used in classic Indian culture.  The
crackers are manufactured using child labor in near-slavery.  The
chemicals used in the manufacture of crackers permanently damage the
health of many of those children.  When burnt or exploded, these
crackers produce more poisonous gases which lead to a noticeable jump
in the number of cases of asthma, bronchitis, and respiratory tract
infections in the weeks following Diwali every year.  The noise
produced can cause hypertension, loss of sleep, and even heart
attacks.

We are amazed that IIT faculty, given their assumed level of education
and ethics, have not automatically and independently boycotted the use
of fire crackers at least within their households.  If participation
in Indian culture involves the mindless exploitation of helpless
underprivileged children and the callous abuse of public air and
silence, we would like to opt out of Indian culture.  So would anyone
with a conscience.



You are a reactionary.  You ought to cut some slack for the less
privileged classes.

We have interviewed a number of non-academic staff members on this
issue.  While we cannot ensure that they were sincere in answering our
questions, the support for cutting down festival noise was nearly
unanimous.  In one case, a non-academic staff asked a faculty member
why we, being supposedly more powerful than they, cannot do anything
about the noise problem.  This should put to rest the suspicion that
we are fanning class warfare.

If cutting some slack means paying some more taxes (local to IIT, say
through the overhead that IIT charges on R&apm;D projects) for the
welfare of the so-called "less privileged" classes, or holding
short-term courses for non-academic staff to impart computer skills,
we will be among the first to volunteer.  We do not accept
indiscipline, especially in a form that affects other citizens
adversely, as a privilege.  In fact, we claim that "cutting them
slack" encourages less privileged classes to be beneficiaries of a
cheap handout system and cease to ask the administration other, more
substantive, and potentially challenging questions about their careers
and benefits while working for IIT.



If you stop these avenues of cathartic release, these people will
degenerate into violent or criminal ways.

This sounds similar to a bad parent giving in to his/her kid whining,
throwing tantrums, and demanding a bottle of unnecessary and
unwholesome sugar-and-caffeine drink which may be addictive and may
have long-term health implications.  Giving in to blackmail is no way
to run a society.



But surely we are making progress?

We sure are, no question about that.  We have seen post-11pm noise
being genuinely curtailed, and this is very welcome.  But we need to
do more.  The interior of the IIT campus should be run at standards
not merely matching but exceeding those of cities at large, because it
is---and we are merely quoting here---a "world-class organization" and
an "institution of national importance".



OK, we believe you.  But can you give some constructive suggestions?

The easiest change to implement, in our view, is to relocate the
community halls to a place where it does not affect academic work.
Even at present, they are comfortably far from the core academic
areas; the problem is that increasingly, faculty members do a lot of
academic work at home.  Obviously, improving quiteness near faculty
residences is desirable even if it is not with the explicit goal of
improving productivity.  

It should not be difficult to locate several potential sites.  E.g.,
there is a string of workshops on the eastern boundary of the campus.
Perhaps these can be reorganized a bit to create a plot of land
comparable in size to the hillside community hall.  Many other sites
may exist.

Continued incremental legislative pressure inside campus will also
help.  New employees may be required to sign an agreement that they
will not use any device which creates loud noises for non-academic
purposes.  Fines can be imposed for the worst offenders.

We should alert faculty members to the evils of fire-crackers.  The
Staff Club can expose campus children to the subhuman conditions under
which their brothers and sisters manufacture fire-crackers, and plead
them not to use anything except oil lamps during Diwali.
